# Garowe-Polytecnic-Institute
Garowe Polytechnic Institute (GPI) transitional from Garowe Vocational Training Center (GVTC) which is a public center that aims to develop skilled labor through diversified skill courses to meet the requirements of mainly the unorganized sector of the community and to instill self-employment skills into the people through a large number of self-employment oriented skill courses. Garowe VTC is one of the four vocational training centers in Puntland built by the Islamic Development Bank in 1993-1994 with a group of professional engineers, intellectuals, businesspersons and field experts living in Puntland regions mainly in Nugal region, but it was started operating in 2006 and the gap between the year of establishment and the year of commencement was resulted the political and security unrest of country. Garowe VTC was established because there was a need to get skilled and professional people in the region to overcome the massive unemployment in the region, GVTC helps the person in becoming skilled in a particular field at a comparatively lower age, those who want to utilize what they have been accomplished or trained. Garowe VTC has achieved most of the planned activities to encourage, setting up, managing and sustaining a national system that ensures vocational training of human resources in productive occupations that may be required by the national development process and that take into account the abilities, attitudes and moral and ethical values of individuals. As well as, setting up of a skill training program focusing on different vocational skills training. The Garowe VTC was strongly developed and equipped to such a level that it is one of its benchmark for other Vocal Training Centers. From the plan of GVTC as at the time of equipped and constructed it was to develop into a higher level of technical learning institution to develop and expand its skill program services to the region and toempower growing needs of the community to create skilled man power, and encourage employability opportunities. It has mostly been project based learning institution. The projects from the NGOs and other funding bodies may not be sufficient to run the institution all through the years. Apart from the projects from the funding bodies, the polytechnic seek to have its programs running not necessarily depending on the bodies wholesomely. GVTC closely worked with International Organizations including; European Union (EU), ILO, UNDP, UNODC, USAID, SIDA, Care international, Save the children International, World Vision International, Norwegian Church Aid (NCA), Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) and American Refugee Committee (ARC), these organizations funded and supported many skills training and livelihood projects implemented by the Garowe VTC. Garowe VTC also closely partnership with Governmental Institutions (Puntland Ministry Of Education And Higher Education (MoE &amp; HE) and Garowe local Authority (GLA), and number of local companies for long time which plays an important role for the running of the center. including; NECSOM (Nugal Electric Company of Somalia) GOLIS, Mubarak Construction Company, Samaaley Construction Company and NUWACO these companies  perform with GVTC by ideal contribution when it comes to the programs to be offered since they are a market operating companies they mostly likely identify where there is a need and scarcity in community; moreover these companies sometimes contribute material support and promote the programs to succeed, and  as estimated 50% of  each graduates from GVTC attached to get jobs from the above mentioned companies although GVTC is the only reliable vocational center in the Nugal Region particularly, in Garowe District. The Garowe VCT has strong partnership with the government; the educational policies used by the center are based on stratagem and curriculum of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education of Puntland to words the vocational schools, and TVET centers.
